Importance of giving and receiving feedback professionally
By Jeevitha R


Introduction

Feedback is very important in every aspect of life including both professional and personal. This helps us to analyze the strengths and the understand areas of improvement. In a professional workspace,  feedback is unavoidable. Let see more about this in the perspective of professional feedback like how to give and receive a proper feedback with real-life examples.

Main content

Giving feedback is inevitable because when working in a team projects, communication discussions, learning new skills and technologies to address someone's strength and weakness to improve themselves further. Why feedback is important? it reveals blind spots, transform mistakes into lessons, boosts confidence and skills, strengthens teamwork and drives continuous growth. The first thing on giving effective feedback is to be specific. For that, use clear examples instead of trying to give general comment. Consider someone is doing mistakes in their communication during their presentation. Mention them that they need to work on communication skills instead of them telling them to improve presentation skills which is general addressing. Second thing is focus on actions of people. This means, keep the feedback unbiased and objective, not regarding of the connection with the person. Next is give feedback at proper time. The feedback should be provided right after the event or incident. Also if you are good at that particular skill, give them some helpful tips, suggestions or resources which would help. Most importantly, use polite word, optimistic language and attitude. Try to make feedback in SBI Model where S for "Situation", B for "Behavior" and I for "Impact". Here is an example, "During today's meeting, your clear explanation helped the team understand the project faster". These type of feedback creates good and specific feedback about their presentation.

Receiving feedback is also as vital as giving feedback. While receiving feedback, listen carefully, ask questions, accept useful suggestions, take action and then improve. Some people think feedback as a form of criticism. They think it as blame, negativity, past focused and it reduces confidence. But analyzing feedback helps to improve, makes one to be future focused and builds real confidence.

Conclusion

Let's delve into real-time life example. Rahul sends emails with grammar mistakes and no subject line. His manager advises him to use a clear subject line and proofread before sending.
Rahul follows the advice and improves his email writing. The outcome of this feedback is that his emails become more professional, and client communication improves. Finally, the feedback meant to improve and help people to grow. Giving feedback with respect and receiving them in an optimistic way gives opportunity to learn and help to be an better individual.

"Feedback is not about finding faults, it is about finding opportunities to grow"

